Fair et al (2007) investigates the functional connectivity of two task-related networks (the frontoparietal and cinguloopercular networks) across three discrete age groups (children, adolescents, and adults) for 210 participants.  These two networks are theorized to control mental instruction sets ("task sets").  According to theory, the networks use three signals: set initiation, set maintenance, and error/adjustment to regulate these instructions.  The networks operate in parallel on different time scales, with the frontoparietal network specializing in rapid adaptation to external cues and the cinguloopercular network specializing in sustained attention.  In adults these networks have strong within-network connectivity and weak between-network connectivity. 

39 a priori regions involved in these networks were used to construct connectivity matrices for all three groups.  Participants across groups were matched for motion and a meta-analysis using the Schmidt-Hunter method was used to combine matrices.  Resting-state data was derived from task-related data rest blocks in all but 10 adult participants.  For each group the strength of connections were ranked, and the 75 strongest connections were taken and used as edges in a graph.  Children exhibited connections between the frontoparietal network and the aPFC/dlPFC not present in adults, and were observed to have the dACC/msFC connected to the cinguloopercular network instead of the frontoparietal. The dlPFC, IPS and IPL had connections present that were found to increase in strength greatly in adulthood. Adolescent graphs demonstrated an intermediate state, with the frontoparietal and cinguloopercular networks more segregated but the dACC/msFC still connected to the frontoparietal network.  In adults, the dlPFC, IPL, aPFC and aI/f0 all developed stronger connections with the cerebellum; posterior cingulate and vmPFC connections also developed with age.

The study concludes that in childhood the frontoparietal and cinguloopercular networks are connected by the aPFC and dlPFC and the frontoparietal network is connected to the dACC/msFC, but that this gradually shifts to the pattern exhibited in adults.  They theorize that task sets may initially be very prominent in the frontoparietal network, but then shift to the cinguloopercular network as they become more ingrained.  This may be facilitated by spontaneous neural activity coupled with increased myelination.  The late emergence of connections between both attention networks and the cerebellum may reflect the late development of error correction.
