# Notes on "Development of distinct control networks through segregation and integration", Fair et al., PNAS, 2007

## Introduction
* Attention theorized to use task sets/operators.
* Task control in adults is related to frontoparietal and cinguloopercular networks.  These networks have strong within-network connectivity, and weak between-network connectivity.
* Task control networks generate 3 signals for task set regulation: set initiation, set maintenance, and error/adjustment.
* Both networks are parallelized, operate on different time scales with different top-down control.
* "functional segregation is measured by statistical independence of components of a system, whereas integration is measured by deviation from statistical independence"
* Working memory is established in childhood, strengthened with development.
* Children experience errors of perserveration (can't switch set) and errors of distraction (can't keep set loaded in memory).

## Results
* 39 a priori task control regions used across 3 age groups (children, adolescents, adults)
* Connection strength ranked for regions; the 75 strongest connections were taken and used in a graph.
* For between-group comparisons, connections where r >= 0.1 analyzed.  Children and adults had similar number of connections (what about adolescents though?)
* Children
 * Connections between frontoparietal network and aPFC and dlPFC not in adults.
 * No dACC/msFC connected to cinguloopercular network, but rather frontoparietal.
 * dlPFC, IPS, and IPL increased in connections w/ time
* Adolescents 
 * Intermediate state.
 * Frontparietal and cinguloopercular networks segregated.
 * dACC/msFC still part of frontoparietal network though.
* Children vs Adults
 * dlPFC and IPS connection present in both; stronger in adults
 * dlPFC, IPL, aPFC, aI/fO all developed stronger connections w/ cerebellum
 * posterior cingulate and vmPFC connection developed with age

## Discussion
* Frontoparietal network is for adaptive control.
* Cinguloopercular network is set maintenance.
* F and C networks connected by aPFC and dlPFC in children.
* F network connected to dACC/msFC in children.
* Adult task sets may be preceded by more prominent signals in F network; these signals would shift to the C network in adults as they became more ingrained.
* Spontaneous activity and myelination may contribute to long distance connectivity / integration (point also made in Fair et al 2008)
* Late emergence of connections between F/C networks and cerebellum may reflect development of error correction ontogenetically.
* One broad point: neural activity is insufficient for explaining cognition- connectivity and the nature of connectivity must be considered.

## Methods
* 210 subjects, 39 a priori ROIs from adult study
* 10 adults subjects had continuous resting state scans; other 200 were from blocks between task blocks
* All three groups were matched for motion, Schmidt-Hunter used to combine correlation matrices
* Two sample two-tailed t-tests between adults and children.  FDR applied.
* Connection strength vs age fit with LOWESS for all subjects
