# Notes on "The maturing architecture of the brain’s default network", Fair et al., PNAS, 2008

## Introduction
* The DMN supports introspective functions; mPFC has been related to narrative/ToM
* We should be able to relate the development of certain abilities (Episodic memory, ToM, mentalization) / developmental stages to changes in connectivity.  We have a good idea of when stages occur based on experiments from cognitive psych/neuroscience.

## Results
* Voxelwise connectivity maps
 * Adult map, child map, map representing statistical comparison (random effects)
 * Adults: ventral mPFC strong correlation w/ other parts of DMN
 * Children: ventral mPFC connections w/ other parts of DMN were weaker/minimal
* Graph analysis
 * Used 13 DMN regions and task negative regions for graph.
 * Adults: High integration betwen DMN and related regions.
 * Children: DMN is sparsely connected 

## Discussion
* Over age the DMN becomes more integrated.
* Caveat: DMN regions were a priori defined based on adult studies.  Feasible that children have a different kind of DMN.
* DMN development possibly due to increases in correlation strength due to myelination, but myelination alone cannot account for increase.  Spontaneous activity in brain may also contribute.
* DMN is existent at young age (7-9). Strategies might be developed by children as they age to improve memory processes.  Children develop expertise for memory storage, with network development (an interpretation).
* Regarding DMN's relationship w/ task-related networks: task-related networks show changes that parallel DMN.

## Methods
* Voxelwise connectivity maps
 * Two-sample two-tailed t-tests w/ FDR

* Graph analysis
 * Motion correction
 * Participants in two groups matched on motion for a total sample of 96 participants (out of original 210)
 * 13 x 13 correlation matrices made for each participant
 * Matrices combined using Schmidt-Hunter
 * LOWESS applied
 
